So, first, can you repeat your name for the record?
Derek Hughes.
Okay.
And are you originally from Swansea?
Yes, I've lived in Swansea all my life.
All your life?
Yes.
Okay.
And so, when and why did you first become a supporter of Swansea?
Well, I was in Swansea Technical School, which is down the bottom of White Street, and we
used to have boys from our school that played for the school boys.
Swansea school boys were a terrific team, one needed a shield, more than any other team,
except for Manchester.
But then, as we got a bit older, we started to go down to see the Swans, and my great
friend in school is elder brother, Scryne, played for the Swans.
So, Billy, Scryne and I, we got to know that we could sell programs for the Swans.
So, we used to sell 20 dozen programs.
They were thruppance each other at first, then six-pence, and used to get so much a
dozen, it amounted to something like an old money.
We sold the 20 dozen, which we would, because in those days, it was always sold out.
You know, you'd get six and eight pence, you know, money, plus the tips.
Which years are we talking about?
This is 1948, the season 48, 49, 49, 50, and probably 50, 51.
And then, if you were lucky, you would get to put the half-time scores up.
And the half-time score box was on the small bank, and it was the best view in the ground
of the match.
So, you were able to stay there.
And you'd get five shillings for that.
So, all together, you'd come out of there with about a pound, which was like, I would
think, 20 or 30 pounds a day.
It was a lot of money, really.
And the half-time scores, then, you'd put them up, and people would look at their programme,
you know, A, game A, the score.
And as a footnote, whatever the score with Cardiff was, because of the love-hate relationship,
it would get a cheer.
So, if Cardiff were winning, hey!
If Cardiff were losing, hey!
And that's still true to this day.
So, as I say, I used to stand at the top of the road leading down to what was the Arsenal
end, and the junction with St Helens Road.
And SEL programme was there, about one o'clock, just before the match.
I'd started, go down, go in, and you could stand on the touchline and watch the game
at the very least.
Good, convenient.
And one morning of the match, I went to get my programme, and 13 and 14, and Rish Carter,
I don't know whether you've heard of him, but he was the rain moony of the day,
rain-frooding London, I think it was Derby, because they were down there playing the Swans.
He said to me, oh, son, and rub my hair.
And I haven't washed my hair since.
He was an and-a-hole, so Tommy Lawton was a great player.
You'd meet all these, and they were like all guys, and they were all men.
They're good with kids, and we in general, you know.
So they'd give you autographs and you've got no problem.
And they'd say that the team in those days would consist of 11 internationals every game.
Oh, yeah, I went to them every game.
Albeit, they were Irish and Welsh internationals.
There weren't any English.
The only Englishman who played regularly for them was a guy by the name of Weston.
He wasn't an English international, but he played what was in those days centre-half.
And Roy Paul, who played left-half, was the first player from this country to go and play abroad in South America.
In South America?
He played for Bogota.
He was a former Swans player.
Roy Paul went out there for a few years, but whilst he was here, he also played for Wales.
They were, in those days, the Swans, if they lost two of them games, it was a disaster.
Oh, really?
Yeah, they'd lose one, perhaps, or none at all.
Wouldn't win many home away games.
But the underground would be packed, really.
You know, I don't know what the capacity was in those days, but just before the match over the Tannoy,
they would announce which health and safety now would have a fit.
Please move further down so people could get in, you know, so on the big bank,
and be sort of standing shoulder-to-shoulder packed in there.
And they'd, us little kids, they'd pass us down over their heads, the crowd would, for us to stand in front.
Happy days, lovely boys.
And great games we saw.
What's the greatest game you remember?
Well, I remember seeing John Charles playing down there, and his brother, Mel Charles.
And the Swans, as they say, I saw them down there when they were promoted then.
Later on, I told you, stick my son down.
When, in the season, I think, when they got promoted to what is now the Premiership.
And in fact, they finished sixth that year in the Premiership.
Oh yeah, that was the greatest result.
As a footnote, do you know that they're in the Guinness Book of Records?
Oh really?
Yes. What happened was Swans were relegated in consecutive seasons,
and had to apply for re-election to the league.
So they applied for the fourth division, they won promotion to the third, the second, and the Premiership in consecutive seasons.
And then they, I think, they went straight back down again.
And the sad thing about that was that the captain, I've forgotten his name now, but he started to play really badly,
and the crowd was to be wimped.
A poor man had Parkinson's disease, and we didn't know.
That's a sad note.
But in general, they were lovely days, and we used to enjoy the games.
And there was another footnote, there'd be one policeman there at the game, and he'd be watching the game.
And the spectators were integrated.
They waged, and there'd be good-natured banter, but never any violence and fighting.
In fact, when my son was 13, I'd been taking him down.
Then the skinheads arrived on the scene, and that stopped me taking him.
When was that?
Well, my son was only 57.
Did that be 1970, say?
You know, 70, 71, that kind of thing.
And that was skinhead.
But in general, the Vetch field, which got its name from?
I've heard a couple of stories about that.
It's a weed called the Vetch.
It's a weed that grows along the seafront.
And the weed is the Vetch.
It is.
It's the weed field.
Really.
And there we are, really.
I'm still going to support them.
I'm hoping to get tickets for the game with West Ham.
My son and I, my son is now 54.
And he and I, so I've got to, perhaps you can advise me how I can get hold of some tickets.
I shall phone the office and see.
Because the fixture list is coming out Saturday, the 23rd of June, for the coming season.
So once I know when West Ham are down here, I'm hoping it's more towards the end of the season.
And then I can get in touch and see if I can get a season ticket or not.
And unfortunately, there's only a couple of thousand tickets.
It's quite difficult to get a ticket.
Do you know if they're going to extend the Liberty?
There is provision for them to put another tier on the Liberty.
Really?
Yes.
Since they've got 40 million, I hope they do that.
Because they certainly have this approval.
Have you been to the Liberty Stadium?
Oh yes, indeed.
Do you like it?
Oh fabulous, fabulous.
Because the conditions down the Vetch, you know, were primitive, to say the least.
Also funny, on another footnote, yet another footnote.
Watching the European Championships, which are brilliant, and thoroughly enjoying them.
But the ball, the modern ball, I think is a bit too light.
Oh yeah.
Balloon.
But the old ball weighed a ton.
And I remember one game where Roy Keane was probably the grandfather of Keane.
You know Keane?
Yes, sure, sure.
He was full back, and Fisher was it, two Irish internationals.
And someone, I think it might have been Tommy Lawton, with a hell of a shot on him.
Hammered the ball towards goal, and Keane met it, and headed it to the halfway line.
And he turned, and it weighed, it was soaking wet.
And it must have weighed about four pounds.
He turned to his colleague and said, oh that hurt, it stiffened, and fell over backwards, completely unconscious.
That's a nice story.
Oh, he's always wonderful.
I know with kids behind that goal, all cheering.
Hey, any of it?
Yeah.
Last question, you showed me your wallet about West Ham, like do you fancy West Ham as well?
Oh yeah, another story.
Serves you right.
When I was a little boy, after the war, about 1946, I was 11, we started to play football in school again.
Because we didn't through the war.
And my mother, I was 13, I was in the technical college by this time.
I played before that.
And in the technical college, you had to have your own kit to play.
If you were picked for the school team, well obviously.
It was very difficult to get kit, so my mother managed to get me a tight yellow jumper.
So we were playing in the trials, and they know this place, Ganges, the field, up in town here, playing trials for the school.
And one of the lads had a West Ham jersey, a proper West Ham jersey.
So he went in my, so we swapped jerseys.
Wow.
Now, the West Ham jersey, because I was only a little lad, probably came down there.
And I've been a West Ham supporter ever since.
That's a nice story. Thank you. Thanks for sharing it.
There we are.
Well, if you leave us a contact, like a telephone number or an email, we might contact you again.
It's my home number, which you know the code, 01792, isn't it?
893758, so that's my phone.
And my mobile is 07760.
471230.
Take this to the chemist and we'll make it through.
Thank you very much.
It's been a pleasure.
It's been a pleasure for me.